good morning YouTube one of those nice
little 22 pump rifle here this belongs
to a family friend I'm kind of
caretaking it at the moment this is a
model 12 a Remington pump these guns
were made by Remington from 1909 to 1936
and they come with the either an octa
octagonal belt or in this case this is a
round barrel they're 22 inches long and
they came in a variety of different
models you have the 12a which is this
gun here this is a 22 inch round barrel
that says 22 short long and long rifle
fire all three you had to be which was a
22 short a C which is the 24 inch
octagonal barrel a C and are a target
which I've never really run across one
of those the CS is 22 Remington special
the D known as the peerless had had
light engraving the EE expert and then
the F which was very Eric very heavily
and great you get to the the DV in the F
and you're talking guns in those who
were $3,000 range easily this being the
a this was pretty much the most common
model next to the C which was the
octagonal barrel this one happens to
have the very nice Lyman rear sight on
it which really really enhances the
sighting on this gun these very nice
little rifles I'm not exactly sure what
year this one was man I haven't booked
this one up yeah I think it's later
production probably at the 20s very nice
little gun I'm gonna take a quick pass
put on the the buttstock here you can
see it's very nice what's very nice a
nice gun nice walnut and you bring along
and you go up and of course you get this
simple simple bead front which is what
they use back then nothing fancy once in
a while you'll see where somebody sculpt
one of these things which I would never
do these guns are too nice to be to be
messed with when you do find we don't
see that of that much thing more I think
most of the collectors get these but
they can still be used this is still a
very good hunting rifle I know more
people now look at semis and everything
else Palmer's not there's nothing wrong
with its gonna hunt with I'd matter of
fact this was this would be an ideal gun
that loved off with us and that's what I
was designed for the design these were
called boys rifles when they first came
out and they were designed for a boy to
go out hunt and do what he needed to do
bring in small game and that's what it
was used for and but you can still use
them as an adult but that's they were
mostly for younger boys and those times
imagine imagine that today a very nice
little action on this gun is a takedown
there's lost work you can see the heavy
neural screw right here you just unscrew
that they're gonna comes apart quite
easily very nice little gun very sharp
looking excellent action I would not
hesitate take this out if you run across
one of these they're right up there I
think in quality with the Winchesters
their model 61 pump which is they're
very nice guns but this is right up
there these are given be pretty
sought-after by collectors you do see
them once in a while for sale they don't
last very long usually you've seen in a
gun shop because guys ten minutes are
looking at occasionally if you run
across one and you see them for three
four dollars snag it by all means as
long as it's not beat up or in his good
shape this gun here is I mean I've
stopped making them in 36 - think about
how many years that is that's you know
well over 70 years old as this gun will
still do everything
designed to do from the very beginning I
I tell people if you find something like
this and you want a nice hunting rifle
they hold I believe this holds somewhere
neighborhood of 12 or 13 rounds just
load up go find some squirrels go find
some rabbits maybe a grouse or two what
more can you ask for